apps/crossing-the-narrow-sea/README.md, before:

# Crossing the Narrow Sea

Minimal app for analyzing the Game of Domains “Crossing the Narrow Sea” trial.

- Goal: compute per-wallet counts of cross-domain transfers (Consensus ↔ Domain:0)
- Approach: node-based capture → write to SQLite → offline match/aggregate
- Details: see `docs/requirements.md` and `docs/xdm-correlation.md`

## Quick start

1. Install deps at repo root

```
yarn install
```

2. Configure environment (example)

```
# RPC endpoints (comma-separated allowed for failover)
CONSENSUS_RPC_URL=wss://rpc-0.taurus.autonomys.xyz/ws
DOMAIN_RPC_URL=wss://auto-evm-0.taurus.autonomys.xyz/ws

# Trial window
CONSENSUS_START_HEIGHT=1740677
CONSENSUS_END_HEIGHT=2460732
DOMAIN_START_HEIGHT=1060691
DOMAIN_END_HEIGHT=1561826

# Options
OUTPUT_DIR=exports
BLOCK_CONCURRENCY=8
RPC_BACKOFF_MS=1000
RPC_MAX_BACKOFF_MS=10000
```

3. Run capture scripts

```
# From repo root
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea capture:consensus
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea capture:domain
```

4. Offline processing

```
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea match
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea counts
```

## Scripts

- `capture:consensus` — scan consensus blocks and persist evidence to SQLite
- `capture:domain` — scan domain blocks and persist evidence to SQLite
- `match` — offline join by `(channel_id, nonce)` using `ACK_MODE`; writes `d2c_transfers.ndjson` and `c2d_transfers.ndjson`
- `counts` — aggregate per-wallet counts by direction from NDJSON; writes `counts_per_wallet.json`

Commit message:

Enhance counts output with percentages, block ranges, and optional HTML leaderboard

apps/crossing-the-narrow-sea/README.md, after:

# Crossing the Narrow Sea

Minimal app for analyzing the Game of Domains “Crossing the Narrow Sea” trial.

- Goal: compute per-wallet counts of cross-domain transfers (Consensus ↔ Domain:0)
- Approach: node-based capture → write to SQLite → offline match/aggregate
- Details: see `docs/requirements.md` and `docs/xdm-correlation.md`

## Quick start

1. Install deps at repo root

```
yarn install
```

2. Configure environment (example)

```
# RPC endpoints (comma-separated allowed for failover)
CONSENSUS_RPC_URL=wss://rpc-0.taurus.autonomys.xyz/ws
DOMAIN_RPC_URL=wss://auto-evm-0.taurus.autonomys.xyz/ws

# Trial window
CONSENSUS_START_HEIGHT=1740677
CONSENSUS_END_HEIGHT=2460732
DOMAIN_START_HEIGHT=1060691
DOMAIN_END_HEIGHT=1561826

# Options
OUTPUT_DIR=exports
BLOCK_CONCURRENCY=8
RPC_BACKOFF_MS=1000
RPC_MAX_BACKOFF_MS=10000
```

3. Run capture scripts

```
# From repo root
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea capture:consensus
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea capture:domain
```

4. Offline processing

```
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea match
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea counts
yarn workspace crossing-the-narrow-sea counts:html  # Optional: generate HTML leaderboard
```

## Scripts

- `capture:consensus` — scan consensus blocks and persist evidence to SQLite
- `capture:domain` — scan domain blocks and persist evidence to SQLite
- `match` — offline join by `(channel_id, nonce)` using `ACK_MODE`; writes `d2c_transfers.ndjson` and `c2d_transfers.ndjson`
- `counts` — aggregate per-wallet counts by direction from NDJSON; writes `counts_per_wallet.json` with XDM transfer share for each wallet
- `counts:html` — same as `counts` but also generates `leaderboard.html`, an easy-to-read interactive leaderboard with search
